[[Vehicles]]

- Handling represents the vehicle’s agility and responsiveness. This value is the base limit for Vehicle Tests made where maneuverability is the most important feature. 
- Speed represents the maximum velocity that the vehicle can achieve—its top-end speed. This value is the base limit for Vehicle Tests that emphasize raw speed. 
- Acceleration defines how quickly a vehicle is able to change its current speed and close the distance between it and another moving target. The value represents the maximum number of Range Categories that the vehicle can move in a single Combat Turn. 
- Body represents a combination of structural integrity and size of the vehicle and its resistance to damage. Larger vehicles tend to have more open spaces that are not as high risk when being attacked. Body is used as part of the dice pool that vehicles use for resisting damage, just like a metahuman character. 
- Armor represents a vehicle’s “toughness,” its ability to take a hit and still function. This does not necessarily represent metal plating attached to the vehicle, but a general resistance to incoming attacks due to the vehicle’s structural integrity and strength. Armor is the second value (with Body) that forms the dice pool that vehicles use to resist damage. 
- Pilot is a rating defining the capabilities of the built in computer piloting system with which all vehicles in the Sixth World come equipped. For any vehicle not being actively piloted by a metahuman, this takes the place of all Mental attributes and Reaction for any tests the vehicle needs to make. 
- Sensor is a rating representing the suite of information-gathering or detection devices that are built into every vehicle in the Sixth World. Sensor acts as the limit for Perception and other detection tests using the vehicle’s systems. 
- As most vehicles are a bit less squishy than metahumans, they have a Condition Monitor equal to 12 plus half their Body (rounded up), they ignore Stun damage (though electricity-based attacks are considered Physical Damage to vehicles), and any attack where the modified DV does not exceed the Armor of the vehicle does nothing. Drones are a different story and have a Condition Monitor equal to 6 plus half their Body.